fxgrep - The Functional XML Querying Tool
Version 4.1, June 05, 2003

by Andreas Neumann and Alexandru Berlea, University of Trier
   neumann@psi.uni-trier.de, aberlea@psi.uni-trier.de

What is fxgrep?
---------------
fxgrep is a powerful XML querying tool. It is written in the functional 
programming language SML, based on the XML parser fxp. Given a query, 
it parses an XML document and finds all matches of the query within that 
document. The query can be specified either as a pattern or a grammar; 
while the pattern syntax is more succinct and intuitive, the grammar 
syntax is more expressive. 

Installation
------------
In order to install fxgrep, you need an SML compiler. The current version
of fxgrep has been tested with version 110.0.6 of SML of New Jersey, but 
it might also run with other versions. The compiler must have the compilation 
manager (CM) built in, which is the default when installing SML-NJ. We 
successfully compiled fxgrep on Linux with glibc2.1, Digital Unix 4.0 and 
Solaris 2.7. For other unices we expect no problems; compiling with the 
Windows version of SML-NJ has not been tried. 

These are the steps for installing fxgrep under Unix: 

    1. Download and install the latest version of fxp
       (http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/~neumann/Fxp/); 
    2. Download the latest version of fxgrep;
    3. Unpack the sources, and change to the fxgrep directory, e.g.: 

         gunzip -c fxgrep-4.1.tar.gz | tar xf -
         cd fxgrep-4.1

    4. Read the COPYRIGHT; 
    5. Edit the Makefile according to your needs. Probably you will only have 
       to change the following: 

         FXP_LIBDIR    is where the fxp library was installed. This should
                       be set to the same path as for the installation of
                       fxp; it must contain the file fxlib.cm. Make sure
                       that fxp was compiled with the same version of SML-NJ.   
         FXGREP_BINDIR is where the executable will be installed; 
         FXGREP_LIBDIR is where the heap image of by fxgrep will be installed; 
         SML_BINDIR    is the directory where the SML executables are found. 
                       It must contain the .arch-n-opsys script from the 
                       SML-NJ distribution, so make sure that this is where 
                       SML-NJ is physically installed; 
         SML_EXEC      is the name of the SML executable. This is the program 
                       that is called for generating the heap image and at 
                       execution of fxgrep. If sml will be in your PATH at 
                       installation time, you don't need the full path here. 

    6. Compile fxgrep by typing make; 
    7. Install fxgrep by typing make install. 

If you experience problems installing fxgrep, send me a mail.
Check out for new versions at 
        http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/~aberlea/Fxgrep.

Alexandru Berlea.
